Add Food Ordering Example page (#526)
permitio/docs: docs/modeling/fds-nuxt.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: SaaS and B2C Applications
---

import TimelineStep from "../../src/components/timeline/TimelineStep";
import TimelineWrapper from "../../src/components/timeline/TimelineWrapper";

> Consumer apps require fine-grained authorization that performs at scale. Unlike B2B, which could thrive with relatively fewer users and roles, SAAS applications need more advanced access control mechanisms. They grow so fast and demand extra app security and permissions.

Reviewer: The structure of this statement sounds weird.
- B2B and B2C are both SaaS applications
- The structure isn't easy to follow

Author: Okay. What about rewording to

Consumer applications need fine-grained authorization that performs at scale. Unlike B2B systems, that can work well with fewer users and roles, B2C applications require advanced access control policies. They grow fast and demand extra app security and permissions.

> This guide uses a food ordering system to demonstrate how to combine RBAC, ABAC, and ReBAC to build robust and granular-level authorization policies. With minimal code, we'll leverage Permit’s policy editor, SDKs, and APIs to implement flexible and scalable access control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide uses a food ordering system to demonstrate how to combine RBAC, ABAC, and ReBAC policies to build robust and granular-level authorization policies. With a minimal code footprint in the application, we'll leverage Permit’s policy editor, SDKs, and APIs to implement flexible and scalable access control.
```

## Food Delivery System

> The Food Delivery System (FDS) of this guide was built with [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) / [Vue](https://vuejs.org). It has 4-pages, one for each role: `customer`, `rider`, `vendor`, and `admin`. Actions on orders are buttons that record occurrence times. We will look at FDS features, authorization policies, and enforcing its permissions.

Reviewer: Same comment as in the introduction, this sentence is not easy to follow. You can't start it with `The Food Delivery System` without any context in advance.

The structure of this sentence should be something like `For the demo purpose in this guide we will demonstrate a food ordering...`

Please rewrite

> ## FDS Core Features

Reviewer: Add a little/short statement that gives the context for this section

Author: done, expanded it welll

### 1. Meal Management

> Vendors (and admins) can create and delete meals. Every other person can see meals. These meal management actions are secured with authorization policies.

Reviewer: Please add styling to the objectives here. Also `Vendors (and admins)` is not a clear statement to say.

Reviewer: Person = user, etc. many unclear and incosistent terms here

Author: Okay,  after massive editing, rather removed this sub-section.

### 2. Order Management

> When a customer adds meals to their cart and places an order, the vendor can prepare (or fulfill) it, the admin can assign a rider for it, and the rider can deliver it to the customer. For every action, we define policies to allow or deny access to the acting user.

Reviewer: Same as before, we should keep consistent naming for the personas of the features

### 3. Composite Permissions

> In the FDS, where possible, we combine separate authorization models for the same action. Primarily, we use roles ([RBAC](/how-to/build-policies/rbac/overview/)) to allow permissions on meals and orders. On top of that, where obtainable, we also check if users meet some conditions ([ABAC](/how-to/build-policies/abac/overview/)) or have a link to the target entity ([ReBAC](/how-to/build-policies/rebac/overview/)) before allowing permissions.

Reviewer: `In the FDS, where possible, we combine separate authorization models` in not a clear enough statement.

We should aim to explain it as `we keep simplicity with RBAC, and combine ABAC/ReBAC where need fine-grained`

For example, for a user to _deliver_ orders, we apply all 3 models when checking permissions:

> a. The user needs to have the `rider` role to make a delivery (RBAC).  

Reviewer: Convert to bullet points to make it a list

> a. The user needs to have the `rider` role to make a delivery (RBAC).  
> b. We only allows riders to deliver orders that were assigned to them (ReBAC).  
> c. If the involved order has a free delivery, we also check the rider’s number of rides (ABAC).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The user needs to have the `rider` role to make a delivery (RBAC).  
- We only allows riders to deliver orders that were assigned to them (ReBAC).  
- If the involved order has a free delivery, we also check the rider’s number of rides (ABAC).
```

### 4. Multitenant Authorization

> At the authorization layer, [multitenancy](/concepts/multi-tenant-authorization) is built into the food delivery service with Permit. FDS has two tenants which represent cities (`california` and `washington`). Permissions granted to a user for a specific action in `california` is not auto-granted in `washington`.

Reviewer: The statement isn't clear here. Why are tenants referring to cities? You should add this bridge and restructure the explanation here a little.

### 5. Continuous Data-Syncing

> FDS keeps on updating Permit with changes in data as they happen in real-time. For example, when a customer creates a new order, we record it with Permit. Syncing data this way is for always enforcing policies in realtime.

Reviewer: There is a lot of inconsistency tone in the statements. 

For example `Syncing data this way is for always enforcing policies in realtime.` do not make sense with the rest. It should be restructured.

> ## Server Endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Server Endpoints
```

The Nuxt server exposes endpoints for meal, order, and user management. All the endpoints above have middleware permission checks in them. These checks combine policies (RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC) for fine-grained authorization. The following are the API endpoints of the server:

| Method | Endpoint                  | Authorization       |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ------------------- |
| GET    | `/meals`                  | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/meals`                  | RBAC                |
| DELETE | `/meal/:id/remove`        | RBAC                |
| GET    | `/orders`                 | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/orders`                 | RBAC & ABAC         |
| POST   | `/order/:id/fulfill`      | RBAC & ReBAC        |
| POST   | `/order/:id/assign-rider` | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/order/:id/deliver`      | RBAC, ABAC, & ReBAC |
| POST   | `/users`                  | -                   |
| DELETE | `/users`                  | -                   |

## Prerequisites, Setup, and Configuration

> 

Reviewer: Give a short context for this section

> ### a. Follow-Up Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

#### 1. A Permit Project

Use an existing project or create a new one at [https://app.permit.io](https://app.permit.io). You will get a Permit token for the Permit project to use in the code.

#### 2. Docker

You need a valid [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installation to run the [Policy Decision Point (PDP)](/concepts/pdp/overview) permission checks.

#### 3. NodeJS

> Nuxt and Vue are JavaScript frameworks that work with [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/). To continue, you also need a working Node installation.

Reviewer: This should be a bullet-point list. The titles are redundant.

### b. Setup and Configuration

<TimelineWrapper>
<TimelineStep>

#### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example.git
cd permit-nuxt-example
git checkout all-features
```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

#### Install Dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

#### Provide Environment Variables

- Obtain a Permit token from the [project settings in the Permit Console](https://app.permit.io/settings/api-keys).
- Create a `.env` file at the root of the project with the following. Put the copied token instead of the placeholder value.

```bash
PERMIT_TOKEN=permit_key_XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
PERMIT_PDP=http://localhost:7766
```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

#### Start a Local PDP

> Run the following command to start up a local PDP. Also, put your permit token in the slated place.

Reviewer: Add a link to the PDP page

```bash
  docker run -it \
    -p 7766:7000 \
    --env PDP_API_KEY=your-permit-api-key \
    --env PDP_DEBUG=True \
    permitio/pdp-v2:latest
```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

#### Run the Development Server

```bash
npm run dev
```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

#### Access the App

> Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser. Every action you take will not be authorized. You have to configure the necessary policies in the Permit UI. Remember to create, delete, assign, or unassign roles to test user IDs from the app.
> 
> ![FDS App View](/img/modeling/fds-nuxt/app-view.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser

![FDS App View](/img/modeling/fds-nuxt/app-view.png)

:::info
At this point, the actions you take will not be authorized. To complete the tutorial, you should follow the next step to configure the necessary policies and create, delete, assign, or unassign roles to test user IDs from the app.
:::

```

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

> #### Configure Authorization Policies

Reviewer: This is not part of the timeline steps. It should be a context after you finish the timeline. Also restructure the text of this paragraph to make sense with it.

</TimelineStep>
</TimelineWrapper>

## Configure Basic RBAC

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) is usually the first line of authorization strategy to implement. FDS uses RBAC first for all actions. In the context of resources, we enforce the following policies.

**For Meals:**

- All roles (`customer`, `rider`, `vendor`, and `admin`) can view (_read_) meals.
- Only `vendor`s and `admin`s can _create_, _update_, and _delete_ meals.

**For Orders:**

- All roles can view orders.
- Only `customer`s can _create_ them.
- Only `vendor`s can _fulfill_ them (marking the orders as ready to be delivered).
- Only `admin`s can _assign riders_ to orders.
- Only `rider`s can _deliver_ them.
- `admin`s can also _create, fulfill,_ and _deliver_ orders.

To enforce the above RBAC policies:

<TimelineWrapper>
<TimelineStep>

In the Resources tab of the policy section of the Permit UI, create the "Meal" and "Order" resources with their involved actions.

![Creating RBAC Resources](/img/modeling/fds-nuxt/rbac-creating-resources.gif)

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

> In the Roles tab, create the 4 roles.

Reviewer: Please explain/expand

</TimelineStep>
</TimelineWrapper>

## Configure ABAC

Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) makes permissions more granular and fine-grained. In ABAC, we check for specific condition sets on user and/or resource attributes before allowing or denying permissions. When using ABAC, you group the attributes into conditions and create a set. So you can have multiple user sets and/or resource sets.

The FDS app uses promotional offers to show how to use ABAC. Orders with at least 500 costs are eligible for free delivery. Also, only riders with at least 500 number of rides can deliver these promotional orders. We can rephrase these ABAC policies as follows:

- A `customer` can _create a free delivery_ order **if** the order’s cost is greater than or equal to 500.
- A `rider` can _deliver_ a free delivery order **if** the rider’s number of rides is greater than or equal to 500.

Notice how these ABAC policies are built on top of the pre-defined RBAC ones. The ABAC policies use the roles and actions but add conditions to allow permissions.

To see this in action,

<TimelineWrapper>
<TimelineStep>

Edit the "Order" resource to

a. Create a numeric `cost` attribute in it, and

> b. Add a _create-with-free-delivery_ action in it.

Reviewer: The `a., b.` lists do not get style. Use either numeric or bullet point list.

Also, this is missing explanation, not clear at all what shoulddo.

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

> Create the resource set for the ABAC condition.

Reviewer: Styling looks bad (see preview)
Please rewrite/restructure

## Configure ReBAC

Relationship-Based Access Control (ReBAC) uses associations or links between users and resources to grant or deny permissions. ReBAC leverages relationships in the overall system for access control. The FDS application uses ReBAC to enforce the following policies:

- A `vendor` can only _fulfill_ an order **if** the vendor created the meals in that order.
- A `rider` can only _deliver_ an order **if** that order was assigned to the rider by the admin.

To fulfill an order, vendors use two policy checks: having the `vendor` role and having a relationship with meals. To deliver an order, a user needs the `rider` role, a relationship with the order, and the number of their rides to exceed a minimum.

To see ReBAC in action with FDS,

<TimelineWrapper>
<TimelineStep>

Create `Vendor` and `Rider` instance roles on the “Order” resource.

</TimelineStep>
<TimelineStep>

Update the policy editor to allow “fulfill” and “deliver” actions for these new roles on orders. Refresh the app and test extensively.

![Order#Vendor Instance Role and fulfill action in Policy Table](/img/modeling/fds-nuxt/rebac-vendor.gif)

</TimelineStep>
</TimelineWrapper>

## Syncing App Data

> In server code, continuously synchronize app data with Permit. This ensures that authorization policies are always applied to new users and resources.

Reviewer: Unclear statement

Author: Can we remove it?

Author: Okay will remove it

```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
// ...

const fulfill = async (orderId: number) => {
  if (permit.value.check('fulfill', 'Order', {})) {
    // ...
  }
};

const assignRider = async (e: FormSubmitEvent, orderId: number) => {
  if (e.valid && permit.value.check('assign-rider', 'Order', {})) {
    // ...
  }
};

const deliver = async (orderId: number) => {
  if (permit.value.check('deliver', 'Order', {})) {
    // ...
  }
};
</script>

<template>
  <!-- ... --->

  <Button
    label="Fulfill"
    v-if="!order.fulfilledTime && permit.check('fulfill', 'Order', {})"
    @click="fulfill(order.id)"
  />
  <Button
    label="Deliver"
    v-if="!order.deliveredTime && permit.check('deliver', 'Order', {})"
    @click="deliver(order.id)"
  />
  <Form
    @submit="(e) => assignRider(e, order.id)"
    v-if="
      permit.check('assign-rider', 'Order', {}) &&
      !order.riderAssignedTime
    "
    class="flex gap-4 items-end"
  >
    <!-- ... --->
  </Form>

  <!-- ... --->
</template>

> ```

Reviewer: Should add conclusion with summary and further reading links

---
sidebar_position: 5
title: SaaS and B2C Applications
---

import TimelineStep from "../../src/components/timeline/TimelineStep";
import TimelineWrapper from "../../src/components/timeline/TimelineWrapper";

While B2B applications sometimes go all the way with fewer users and roles, **consumer** applications usually grow extremely faster in users and data. This exponential growth makes fine-grained authorization that performs at scale a mandatory requirement.

This guide uses a food ordering system to demonstrate how to combine RBAC, ABAC, and ReBAC policies to build robust and granular-level authorization policies. With a minimal code footprint in the application, we'll leverage Permit’s policy editor, SDKs, and APIs to implement flexible and scalable access control.

## Food Delivery System

> For this guide's demo, we will use a food delivery system (FDS). It brings together various user types that co-interact on demo meals and orders to simulate real-life ordering. The core functionalities are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Food Delivery System (FDS) in this demo brings together various user types that co-interact on demo meals and orders to simulate real-life ordering. The core functionalities are as follows:
```

- Customers can add meals to carts and place an order.
- Vendors can prepare (or fulfill) the order.
- Admins can assign riders to orders.
- Riders can deliver the orders to the customer.

> In this tutorial, the FDS was built with [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) / [Vue](https://vuejs.org). It has 4-pages, one for each role: `customer`, `rider`, `vendor`, and `admin`. We will look at FDS features, authorization policies, and enforcing its permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, the FDS was built with [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) / [Vue](https://vuejs.org). It has 4-pages, one for each role: `customer`, `rider`, `vendor`, and `admin`. We will look at FDS features, authorization policies, and enforcing its permissions.

The full code of the demo application is available at: https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example
```

### Server Endpoints

The Nuxt server exposes endpoints for meal, order, and user management. All the endpoints above have middleware permission checks in them. These checks combine policies (RBAC, ABAC, or ReBAC) for fine-grained authorization. The following are the API endpoints of the server:

| Method | Endpoint                  | Authorization       |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ------------------- |
| GET    | `/meals`                  | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/meals`                  | RBAC                |
| DELETE | `/meal/:id/remove`        | RBAC                |
| GET    | `/orders`                 | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/orders`                 | RBAC & ABAC         |
| POST   | `/order/:id/fulfill`      | RBAC & ReBAC        |
| POST   | `/order/:id/assign-rider` | RBAC                |
| POST   | `/order/:id/deliver`      | RBAC, ABAC, & ReBAC |
| POST   | `/users`                  | -                   |
| DELETE | `/users`                  | -                   |

## Prerequisites, Setup, and Configuration

> Before diving into the implementation, you'll need to set up your environment and ensure dependencies are in place. Let's look at the requirements and setup to get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to experience this demo is to run it and see it live in your local environment.

Before diving into the implementation, you'll need to set up your environment and ensure dependencies are in place. Let's look at the requirements and setup to get started.
```

### Prerequisites

> **A Permit Project: ** Use an existing project or create a new one at [https://app.permit.io](https://app.permit.io). You will get a Permit token for the Permit project to use in the code.
> 
> **Docker: ** You need a valid [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installation to run the [Policy Decision Point (PDP)](/concepts/pdp/overview) permission checks.
> 
> **NodeJS: ** Nuxt and Vue are JavaScript frameworks that work with [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/). To continue, you also need a working Node installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **A Permit Project: ** Use an existing project or create a new one at [https://app.permit.io](https://app.permit.io). You will get a Permit token for the Permit project to use in the code.
- **Docker: ** You need a valid [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installation to run the [Policy Decision Point (PDP)](/concepts/pdp/overview) permission checks.
- **NodeJS: ** Nuxt and Vue are JavaScript frameworks that work with [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/). To continue, you also need a working Node installation.
```

### Setup and Configuration

<TimelineWrapper>
<TimelineStep>

> #### Clone the Repository
> 
> ```bash
> git clone https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example.git
> cd permit-nuxt-example
> git checkout all-features
> ```
> 
> </TimelineStep>
> <TimelineStep>
> 
> #### Install Dependencies
> 
> ```bash
> npm install
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Clone the Repository and Install Dependencies

```bash
git clone https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example.git
cd permit-nuxt-example
git checkout all-features
npm install
```

```

The exception is with the `/users` endpoints. They are not regulated with middleware. This allows you to grant and revoke roles and test flows in the FDS as much as you wish.

## Prerequisites, Setup, and Configuration

Before diving into the implementation, you'll need to set up your environment and ensure all dependencies are in place. Let's look at the necessary requirements and configuring everything to smoothly get started.

### a. Follow-Up Requirements

The code for this Food Delivery Service is at [https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example/tree/all-features](https://github.com/permitio/permit-nuxt-example/tree/all-features). Specifically, the complete setup with multitenancy, data sync, RBAC, ABAC, and ReBAC, are in the `all-features` branch.

Before setting up and configuring FDS to see it in action, you need to have the following in place:

#### 1. A [Permit.io](http://Permit.io) Project

FDS uses Permit as an Authorization solution. Use an existing project or create a new one at [https://app.permit.io](https://app.permit.io). You will obtain a Permit token for the Permit project to use in the code.

#### 2. Docker

> You need a valid Docker installation to test “allow”s and “deny”s. We use [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to run the [Policy Decision Point (PDP)](/concepts/pdp) for Nuxt / Vue Permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need a valid Docker installation to test “allow”s and “deny”s. We use [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) to run the [Policy Decision Point (PDP)](/concepts/pdp/overview) for Nuxt / Vue Permissions.
```
